You can see that F
of X equals E to Y...
Times E to the X,
which is what we were trying to prove.
Notice the elegance of the proof.
It's beautiful!
It actually reminds me
of a quote by Socrates,
'If measure and symmetry are absent
'from any composition in any degree,
'the ruin awaits both the
ingredients and the composition.'
'Measure and symmetry are beauty,
and...
virtue the world over.'
He's cute. Do you think he's straight?
Oh, yeah, he's too boring to be gay.
Oh.
-Is it 5:15? Is my watch correct?
-Yes, it is.
Uh...
Thank you. Uh...
I'm releasing you a half
hour early today. I have...
an appointment.
I'm giving a lecture
on my new book tonight.
If people are interested,
please see me.
Okay. Um...
Thank you.
Whoo!
Mmm.
Rose, get that mask off your face.
It's been 15 minutes.
It'll clog your pores.
You're Donna be late. It's almost 7:00.
All right, all right.
Ah! You stupid bum!
$3 million a year! For what? For what?
Come on. Come on, just one more out.
Barry Neufeld.
Hi, Barry. It's Rose.
Hi...
Oh, no, not again.
Uh, I think it's an allergic reaction
to something I ate, you know.
Come on, come on, come on.
My throat's starting to close up. Oh!
It sounds like you're dying.
Rose, it's the third time this month.
Are you sure you're not allergic to me?
Barry, please don't think that.
That's a terrible thing to think!
I'm Donna be blacklisted
at every restaurant
in Manhattan for not
keeping reservations.
Why don't you call me next week, okay?
If you still want to.
-Sure. Feel better.
-Thank you.
-Bye.
Think I should start with a joke?
Oh, you're serious?
No, I don't think so.
There's not enough time.
-For what?
-For you to develop a sense of humour.
And now, ladies and gentlemen,
the author of Absolute Truth,
Columbia's very own
Professor Gregory Larkin.
You're going to be fine.
Thank you. Thank you very much.
I'm honoured by this warm
and gracious welcome.
As I stand here at
the end of a journey,
I'm reminded of something
Descartes once said,
'Whether I am awake or asleep,
two and three will always make five.
'A square can never have
more than four sides.
'It does not seem possible that truths'
'so clear and apparent can be
suspected of any uncertainty.'
Uh, this book..
has taken me over 14 years to write.
It is not without a little sadness
that I say goodbye to it
consuming my days and nights.
And nights... Um...
And so...
And as I stand here...
And so, in coming up... Summing up...
Uh...
Excuse me, I'm feeling a little dizzy.
I thought it would feel differently.
I thought I would know more. I don't.
I don't know anything,
really.
Thank you all for coming.
Thanks. Thank you.
Oh, God. What did I say?
It was fine,
although I'd think twice
about doing volunteer work
for a suicide hotline.
You were doing okay
until Candice walked in.
Don't start, Henry.
I just forgot to eat.
You should never drink
on an empty stomach.
Listen, it's perfectly natural.
She left you what, a year ago?
Thank God Candy left when she did,
or I never would have finished the book.
Thank god Rebecca left,
and Catherine and Alison.
You're the only guy I know who can't
have sex
and chew gum at the same time.
Why does everything
have to be about sex?
Because everything is about sex.
When I'm with someone,
when I'm involved with them,
I tend to get a little sidetracked,
that's all.
Greg, you call 14 years to write
a book a little sidetracked?
I bet she's still out there.
-If I know Candice, she's out there.
-No, no, no. Henry!
She's out there. Come on,
face her like a grown-up. Come on.
Wait, do me a favour, Henry.
Don't let me go home with her.
Say we're going out to dinner.
We are.
It may seem odd not to invite...
Please, Henry,
just don't let me go home with her.
All right. All right.
Are you all right?
It was that stupid wine.
Hello, Candice.
Hi.
-You look great.
-Thanks.
I hope you don't mind me
just showing up like
this on your big night.
No.
It's just that I've been thinking
so much about you lately.
-Really?
-Mmm-hmm.
-Do you want to go get a drink?
-No, I'd better not.
-Want to grab a bite to eat?
-No, I'm not hungry.
-Want me to take you home?
-Okay.
-Good to see you, Henry.
-But Greg, you said...
Bye, Henry.
-Candy, don't leave.
-That was great.
I thought you were Donna stay.
Well, we're done. Is my shoe here?
Well,
Candy, I still have feelings for you.
But I dumped you for another man.
How could you still
have feelings for me?
-Besides, I'm still sort of with Paul.
-I thought that was over.
Well, he was cheating on me.
I guess I wanted to
feel better about myself
before I see him tomorrow night.
That's why you're here?
Well, yeah.
Look, you were always such a nice guy,
but let's face it,
we have nothing in common except sex
and the fact that you idolize me.
I... I really do care for you. Really.
I just can't wind up with you.
Can I call you sometime?
What for?
Rose, are you going, or what?
No, I cancelled.
-So, what do you want to do for dinner?
-What?
Why don't you make that
pasta with the artichokes?
Then maybe later, we can figure out
what to do with your hair,
for Claire's wedding.
What is this?
Look at this. I wish I could escape.
The mating ritual is both speedy
and violent for these
passionate insects,
with the lesser male often
covering the larger female.
If unsuccessful in mounting,
the male is often eaten by
the female during copulation.
We're the girls of 1-400-Hot-Talk.
Brianna, Tina, Marla and me, Felicia.
Anything you want to talk about,
call me.
Call me. Call me.
I don't really know where to begin.
Are you lonely tonight, darling?
Yeah.
-So am I. What are you wearing?
-Nothing special.
Felicia, can I ask you a question?
Want to know what I'm wearing?
Just wearing a towel.
I was drying myself off after
a hot shower when you called...
-Why do women leave?
-What?
Why do women leave?
Especially beautiful women.
I can't go through this any more.
Life is very complex.
There are no guarantees.
Why should that be?
The mathematical world
is completely rational,
uncomplicated by sex.
You think too much, hon.
Felicia, I...
Don't you
want to know how big my tits are?
No! I just want to share
my life with someone.
Someone I'm not sexually attracted to.
What?
How can two people come
together for what's a
lasting and substantial,
mutual respect, genuine affection,
in a world that's run by ad
agencies selling great sex?
Take out your own ad, I guess.
-An ad?
-Mmm-hmm.
Look at me.
I'm a grown woman wearing a prom dress.
You are not. You look adorable.
Adorable? I look like an
over-the-hill Barbie doll.
It doesn't fit right, it's too tight.
Too many Sno Balls.
Why didn't you pick out
something looser in my colour?
Because maids of honour
don't wear black.
You know, it would help if you
fixed yourself up a little bit.
Why don't you wear some make-up?
I am wearing make-up.
Let's go.
And your hair looks good today.
I like it, the curls work.
Why don't you get a perm?
I tried that once.
I looked like Shirley Temple on crack.
Where the hell is she?
I'm Donna kill her!
I knew she would pull
something like this.
She can't stand the
fact that I'm the one
getting all the attention today.
We should've had her
committed when she turned 60.
Claire, you can't have someone
committed for excessive vanity.
Thank you, Rose.
How wonderful to have two
compassionate daughters.
I thought you were going
to wear make-up today.
-I am wearing make-up.
-Well?
Oh, my God.
What the hell are you wearing?
This happens to be an imitation Scaasi.
You're the mother of the bride,
not the opening act.
Fine, I'll go home and change.
Oh, stop it. We're late already.
The priest is sweating.
All celibates sweat, dear.
If they didn't, they'd explode.
Come on, let's go.
I just went to buy
myself a little snack.
I can't sit through this without
eating something, I'll pass out.
-It'll only take 45 minutes.
-It'll feel like two hours.
Not to mention that you're marrying
outside your faith and on the Sabbath...
Mother,
the only thing you ever taught me
about the Sabbath is that
Bergdorf's wouldn't be as crowded.
-And you listen to me...
-Take it easy, Claire.
I want you to get up there,
and I want you to
remember today is my day.
And if you don't behave yourself,
I'm Donna
have your birth certificate
blown up as a Christmas card.
I should have never
encouraged you to speak.
Maybe she'll look back and
turn into a pillar of salt.
Alex looks nervous.
Oh God,
I hope I'm doing the right thing.
I think you are.
Ladies and gentlemen,
the party is about to get started.
The dance floor is all yours!
Okay, girls, lick your lips.
Come in close. Come in close.
It's good to see ya.
Tell Claire I'm looking for her.
Your husband's a lucky guy.
-Mmm.
-Oh!
Waiter! Can we have more dressing?
We were separated at birth.
Two more drinks when you get a chance,
please.
That would be nice.
This looks delicious. I'm so happy.
I can't believe he's married.
I can't believe he
chose Claire over you.
I can.
I told you not to introduce them.
Well, she already had a husband.
I thought it was safe.
-How are you handling all this?
-I've learned my lesson.
No more fantasies
about good-looking men.
You never know. There's a guy
out there somewhere for you.
Oh, yeah? Who? Barry Neufeld?
So what's wrong with him?
Besides the fact he looks like Gumpy,
and he irritates the shit out of you?
-Gumby, not Gumpy.
-Gumby.
Why should that matter?
I'm no great prize, either.
Don't say that. You are a terrific
person and a great teacher.
The truth is,
I think I've reached the point.
What point?
The point that you know
you'll never get married.
Married?
What's marriage anyway? Oh! Come on.
A ring,
a contract, fighting and compromising.
No, it can be more than that.
I'll tell you what I envy
about people in love.
Yeah.
I'd love it if someone really knew me.
What I like. What I'm afraid of.
What kind of toothpaste I use.
I think that would really be wonderful.
Hey, hey, hey, sister-in-law,
you having a good time here?
Yeah.
Ladies and gentlemen,
in honour of the bride...
-Have you seen Claire?
-No.
-I can't find her anywhere.
-I'll go find her for you.
-Thank you.
-Excuse me.
You look beautiful tonight, by the way.
Right.
No.
I'm not just saying that. You really do.
-You really look...
-I heard you.
Why don't you have some coffee?
I'll go find Claire.
Claire, where have you been?
Alex is looking for you.
-Oh, brother, it's starting already?
-Come on.
How could you do this?
I may never forgive you.
That's another story.
Hmm.
Yes.
Ah. Yes.
-Yes!
-I'm Professor Gregory Larkin.
I'm calling about the response to my ad.
Is this Professor Morgan?
No, this is her sister.
Rose doesn't even know
I answered the ad.
Well,
then maybe we shouldn't be talking.
No! Please, it's just that Rose
would never answer an ad herself.
I mean, some of these guys
are such creeps and losers.
But when it said you taught at Columbia,
something just clicked inside.
-You have seen her picture, right?
-Yes.
-And?
-And what?
Nothing. Great.
Make way, please.
So. This is the scene at
my sister's wedding. Right?
There she is getting drunk,
regretting she ever got married,
for the third time, mind you.
My mother is so jealous,
she's sprouting snakes from her hair.
And I'm thinking, 'This is perfect.'
We've got three feminine archetypes,
the divine whore,
Medusa, and me.
Who am I? What archetype? Trevor.
-The Virgin Mary?
-Thanks a lot, Trevor.
No, the faithful handmaiden.
Always the bridesmaid, never the bride.
It does prove,
however, what Jung said all along,
that myths and archetypes are alive,
and well and living in my apartment.
As I stood at the altar beside
my sister and her husband-to-be,
it struck me that this ritual
called a wedding ceremony
is really just the last
scene of a fairy tale.
They never tell you what happens after.
They never tell you that
Cinderella drove the prince crazy
with her obsessive need
to clean the castle.
But she missed her day job, right?
No,
they don't tell us what happens after,
because there is no after.
The be-all and the end-all
of romantic love was... Mike?
Sex?
Mike! Mike! Mike!
Sex on the brain, Mike.
Marriage.
Marriage, that's right.
But it wasn't always like that.
Around the 12th century, there was
a notion known as
'courtly love, '
where love had nothing
to do with marriage
and nothing to do with sex.
In most cases, it was defined
as a passionate relationship
between a knight and a lady of the
court,
who was already married.
And so,
they could never consummate their love.
In this way,
they would have to rise above
your ordinary,
you know, 'going to the bathroom
in front of each other' kind of love,
right?
And they would go after
something more divine.
They took sex out of the equation,
and what was left was a union of souls.
Think of this.
Sex was always the fatal love potion.
Look at the literature of the time.
Lancelot and Guinevere.
Tristan and Isolde.
All consummation could lead to
was madness, despair or death.
Clinical experts,
scholars and my Aunt Esther
are united in the belief
that true love has
spiritual dimensions,
while romantic love
is nothing but a lie.
An illusion, a modern myth.
A soulless manipulation.
And speaking of manipulation...
It's like going to the movies,
and we see the lovers' on-screen kiss,
and the music swells and we buy it,
right?
So when my date takes me home
and kisses me good night,
if I don't hear the philharmonic
in my head, I dump him.
Now, the question is, why do we buy it?
We buy it, because whether
it's a myth or manipulation,
let's face it.
We all want to fall in love. Right?
Why? Because that experience
makes us feel completely alive.
Where every sense is heightened,
every emotion is magnified,
our everyday reality is shattered,
and we are flung into the heavens.
It may only last a moment,
an hour, an afternoon,
but that doesn't diminish its value.
Because we're left with memories
that we treasure for
the rest of our lives.
I read an article a while ago
that said, 'When we fall in love,
we hear Puccini in our heads.'
I love that.
I think it's because
his music expresses
our longing for passion in our lives,
and romantic love.
And while we're listening to La Boheme
or Turandot,
or reading Wuthering Heights,
or watching Casablanca,
a little bit of that love lives in us,
too.
So the final question is,
why do people want to fall in love
when it can have such a short shelf
life
and be devastatingly painful?
What do you think? Stacy?
-It leads to propagation of the species?
-Mmm-hmm. Randy?
Psychologically,
we need to connect with somebody.
Could be. Jill.
Because we're culturally
preconditioned?
Good answers,
but much too intellectual for me.
I think it's because,
as some of you already may know,
while it does last,
it feels fucking great. That's why.
Thank you. Thank you.
I'm halfway through my meal,
and you haven't even started yet.
The perfect bite.
Mmm.
You need a therapist.
Rose,
do we have to have the television on?
Can't we have a civilized conversation?
I know I'm not as
intellectually stimulating
as some of you university people...
Alright. Okay, I'm sorry.
How was your day, Mother?
Who gives a shit?
Come on.
I said I was sorry. Let's talk.
I've lived too long.
I should be dead,
not having conversations.
You stop it, please.
Give me that! Talk to me already!
All right.
You haven't even noticed
I had my hair done differently.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. I thought you looked different.
It looks great.
What's different about it?
The... um...
There's nothing different about it.
You're just like your father.
So easy to trip up.
So, how was... how was work?
Same as always.
Although I had one customer
come in looking for a makeover.
She needed one.
Dyed blonde hair, blue eye shadow,
-ash brown foundation. Hideous.
-Hideous.
Hideous.
Anyway, she was shocked when
she found out how old I was.
Oh. How old were you?
Sorry.
I ran into Mr. Jenkins again.
-Oh, yeah?
-He cornered me in the elevator.
He wants to take me to some
Alzheimer's benefit. I said forget it.
I can't believe he still asks
you after all these years.
Why don't you go with him sometime?
Oh, please. Those days are over.
I raised two daughters.
I buried a husband. That's my life.
I have no interest in
starting another one.
Besides, he knows my situation with you.
You're not seeing him because of me?
How would it look?
The mother's dating,
and the daughter stays home alone.
Mom, who's looking?
Hello. Hi.
Hello, this is...
Hello, I'm Gregory Larkin.
Professor Gregory Larkin.
Answer the phone. I'm sleeping.
-Hello.
-Hello?
-Yes, is Professor Larkin there?
-Who?
I mean, is Professor Morgan there?
-Barely. Who's this?
-This is Gregory Larkin.
I'm a professor in the math
department at Columbia.
I was just calling to see
What?
how you are tonight.
I'm fine. How you are?
Fine.
I...
I hope it wasn't presumptuous of me,
but I sat down in one of your classes.
And I... I was very impressed.
I was hoping we could
have dinner Saturday.
Hold on.
-Wait. Could you talk louder please?
-I sat in on your class.
-Hold on. Don't go away.
-I was impressed with your teaching.
I was hoping we could
have dinner Saturday.
I can do this!
-Hello, can you hear me?
-All right.
Hello?
Okay. Let's start again.
You're a math teacher and
you want to eat dinner.
I sat in on one of your classes.
-Rose, who's on the phone?
-Be quiet!
-I'm sorry.
-No, not you. Not you.
-Who's calling?
-I don't know.
Gregory Larkin.
Math department. Columbia.
The theory of implicit differentiation
is often thought of as complex.
Uh, but in reality it is quite simple.
It's simply a matter of pretending
that Y is a function of X.
And so, um...
Mmm.
Hi.
Oh, hi.
-I saw you pass by.
-Yeah. I was just passing by...
I'm sorry about calling
the other night...
I was so confused.
So...
uh... Are we on for Saturday night?
Sure.
Good. I'm looking forward to it.
Hmm. Moi aussi.
Hmm.
So. This one must be very good-looking
for you to go to all this trouble.
I hate lipstick. I can't stand it.
That's not a good colour for you.
Did you try the samples I brought home?
It doesn't matter. I'm not going.
Oh! What do you want to do for dinner?
I don't care about dinner.
I'm upset.
Can't you see that I'm upset?
How should I know?
You're always so relieved
when you cancel your dates.
This is not a date. We're just
agreeing to eat at the same table.
Then why does it matter how you look,
unless you think something
might happen with this one?
Mother,
would you stop calling him 'this one.'
It sounds like you're
picking out a lobster.
And nothing's going to happen.
He just likes the way I teach.
-You need more colour.
-More colour than this?
Yes. Look.
Would you sit down and let me do it?
-All right.
-This is what I do a lot.
-Don't make me look like a clown.
-No. You won't look like a clown.
Here, you have to blend.
-Where's the hairpiece?
-Here.
Do you want me to make you
something before I leave?
It's not such a bad thing
to keep a man waiting.
You don't want him to think he's
the only date you've had in years.
-It's not a date!
-Give me the bow. Where's the bow?
Here.
Hi. Eddy.
Hey, your mother did you up again.
Looks terrific, Miss Morgan.
-Thank you.
-Want me to get you a cab?
-No, I'm fine.
-All right.
Ooh, good. Sir!
Sorry.
Hello!
Are you sure about this?
-Just, why don't you get in.
You're going to take me?
-Get in, lady.
-Thanks.
Here's where I'm going,
but don't go until I
put up the window here.
Oh, no. No! No!
-They're broke, lady.
-My hair!
They're broke lady.
Don't complain to me.
Complain to the cab company.
Oh!
-Hi.
-Hi! Hi.
I'm sorry. I apologise.
I'm sorry. Apologise for what?
You're exactly on time.
Oh! No! I mean, my hair.
I must look like
I was attacked by wolves.
Oh. I apologize, I didn't even notice.
Mmm, uh...
Could you excuse me while
I go to the ladies' room
-for a minute?
-Sure, sure.
I'll be right back.
Do you enjoy dancing?
Um.. yeah.
I used to love to dance with my father.
You?
-Oh. I find it embarrassing.
-Really.
I enjoy watching it.
-Oh, thank you.
-Oh, thank you very much.
-Watching?
-Pairs...
It's interesting how coupling
appears all through
nature and in mathematics.
Oh, yes. You were telling
me something about pairs...
The twin-prime conjecture.
Yes, well...
it explores pairs of prime numbers,
numbers that are only
divisible by themselves.
Three-five.
Five-seven. Not seven-nine, because...
-Nine can be divided by three.
-That's right.
That's right.
Then you have 11-13,
and 17-19 and so on.
Well, what was discovered
was that what often occurred
were pairs separated by...
One number in between.
Exactly. Exactly.
Did you read my book?
No, I'm sorry.
That's all right.
This is really marvellous.
Yeah. First date where I feel
like I am on a game show.
Oh.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to lecture.
Oh. I'm sorry,
I didn't mean to call it a date.
No.
It's just rare that I meet a person
I can discuss these things with.
-Some pepper?
-Oh, no, not for me.
Thank you.
When you get the chance,
can you bring me
a little side dish of
extra dressing please?
I don't particularly like salad,
I just like the dressing.
Ah.
This twin-prime conjecture,
it's interesting.
What would happen if you
counted past a million?
Would there be pairs like that?
I can't believe you thought of that.
This is exactly what is yet to be
proven in the twin prime conjecture.
You know, I have these tickets
for a concert next Saturday.
I was wondering if
we can do this again.
-Sure.
-Great. Terrific.
What was it you wanted to
discuss about my teaching?
Oh. Um....
Well...
I have a confession to make.
That was just an excuse to meet you.
I hope you don't mind.
Mind?
That I didn't find
your class fascinating.
In fact, I have many
questions, the first of which is,
how do you get them to stay?
Well?
-Nothing.
-What happened to your hair?
Don't ask.
You don't think you'll see him again?
No. We're going out next week.
So, he must like you.
Did he kiss you?
No.
Oh.
That's kind of sweet, actually.
-Hey!
-Hi. This is Cindy.
Hello.
This is a spectrum analyser.
It makes graphic representations
of the music. Watch.
It's fun.
Yes.
-Who's the girl?
-Rose Morgan.
Henry Fine is a professor
in anthropology.
Beautiful music, isn't it?
-Beautiful.
-Beautiful atmosphere.
Oh, god! I enjoyed that.
Wasn't that terrific.
Yeah.
Thank you so much for inviting me.
Oh, my pleasure. My pleasure.
Why don't you uh...
Why don't you come up to my apartment?
I live just across the street.
I want to give you a copy of my book.
-Oh, I'd love that.
-Great.
A copy of your book, I mean.
I didn't mean to imply I want to
come up to your apartment, really.
But, Rose, I'm inviting you up.
Oh, yeah.
If you like this kind of music,
I have some wonderful CDs,
but they're...
well, they're also in my apartment.
Greg, look.
I have to be honest with you.
I, uh...
I'm a bit out of practice with this.
Rose, I want you to feel comfortable.
That's very important to me.
It is?
Yes,. So, I want to tell you up front.
I'm not interested in sex.
-You're not?
-No, and it has nothing to do with you.
It doesn't?
No.
It actually has to do with what you were
talking about in your
class the other day.
It does?
Yes. I, too, believe that it's illusions
about love and the emphasis on sex
that keeps people today
separate in the world.
As you said, yourself,
romance is a myth, a manipulation.
Oh, no. Wait.
I was referring to academic opinions
that are purely subjective.
No. No. You were right!
Relationships that are based
on romantic love are worthless.
There's no point to them,
they have no value.
Did you stay for my whole class?
No. No. I left when you were
talking about the music
that we hear when lovers
kiss in the movies.
And I agree. It is so manipulative!
Because, in real life,
we don't hear music when we kiss.
And the person you're with isn't
a movie star.
It's a malicious... a malicious...
-Fantasy?
-Fantasy. Fantasy. Right.
Is it all right
if I sit down for a minute?
Yes. Go ahead.
The addiction to beauty and
perfection created by advertising
just feeds on people's
pathetic desires.
People... they don't have their
own opinions any more.
-Do you agree?
-Well, I know it's...
The media tells us what's
beautiful and what's not.
TV shows tell us what a relationship
is supposed to look like and feel like.
And sex!
Yeah?
No. No. I don't even want to tell
you how that's ruined my life...
Oh, no. Go ahead. Tell me.
-Well, I go crazy.
-Really? Yeah?
When I want someone sexually,
I go out of my mind.
You're kidding.
Oh. Oh...
Do you remember that movie
where the woman kills the bunny?
-Fatal Attraction?
-Right. Right. Granted, it was a film.
Yeah.
I can understand what the
woman was going through.
Are you kidding?
Not that I would ever kill an animal.
Oh. That's great.
I'm not too familiar with
that feeling that you get
when you want someone so much,
it physically hurts not to have them?
Yeah. I know what you mean.
This fiction, known as falling in love,
it drives people crazy,
as you said in your class.
I said that? When did I say that?
And then, at the end of it,
you're either mad, alone or...
-I said dead. Dead.
-Dead!
But that was fiction.
Right! Right! We're dead! Dead!
Now,
now, I do believe that two people...
well.
they can come together, even marry,
for reasons that are more meaningful,
more concrete than sex.
A love that grows in
time out of respect,
love, trust, common interest.
Have you noticed that friendships
last longer than marriages?
-Well, that's sure, but...
-I can even say...
But I think the 12th
century was on to something.
Oh, yeah?
Would you like some coffee? Tea?
Got any scotch?
Yeah.
So. Are you busy this week?
Um... no. I...
I was hoping
you could help me with my teaching.
I'm sure you're much better than
you give yourself credit for.
Hey! Maybe you could sit in on one of
my classes,
tell me what you think.
If X squared plus Y squared equals 16,
how do we find DY,
DX as an implicit function of X and Y?
Well, Y is a function of X,
so we differentiate both sides...
The right hand side is....
What is the left hand side?
The left hand side is...
And you're like walking
across the room like this,
and you're into your own thing.
It's like uh...
the body language is very detached,
very alienating.
I mean... you see what I'm saying? I...
I just think you have to relate
more to the kids, engage them.
You're up there with your back to
the room,
having a great time solving your own
problems.
So,
it's like you're having a math party,
and you only invited yourself.
-No math party.
So, relax.
Loosen up. Have some fun with them.
Relax. Have fun...
What was the other thing you said?
Loosen up, Greg. Put the pen down.
I'm not going to test
you on this stuff.
Come on. Teach me something. Anything.
-Okay.
-Mmm-hmm.
If a...
If a ball is thrown up into the air,
and its height, H, equals 100 T...
Gregory, think. What are you doing?
No.
Turn around. Turn around. Talk to me.
Okay. Uh...
T is time in seconds,
at what limit is the speed approaching,
when T approaches...
You lost me. I'm...
What does all that mean?
You have to put it in some context.
Make up a story. Jazz it up a little.
Find some humour in it.
Humour in calculus?
-Well, try telling a story.
-A story?
Oh. Okay.
Once upon a time,
there was a ball.
And...
it was thrown into the air.
And its height...
Maybe I should just write books.
Why> No one understands those, either.
Just kidding.
Don't give up. Don't give up.
Do it again. Try it again.
-Tell you another story?
-Right. Another story.
Hi, Professor Larkin. Oh. I'm sorry.
No, no, no. No, no, no.
That's all right.
Do we have an appointment?
No. Actually, I wanted to make one.
It's about next semester.
Uh... oh... uh... uh...
Tomorrow. Could you come back tomorrow?
After class?
My head is swimming. It's hot.
Why don't you put your
head between your legs.
That's a good idea.
Pretty girl. Very pretty.
How could you tell
under all that make-up?
You don't use make-up, do you?
What's the point?
I'd still look like me, only in colour.
No. You're just too smart for that.
You know who you are.
You're a confident,
no-nonsense, no frills kind of woman.
I sound like an airline.
I'm sorry, I'm probably saying it wrong.
It's just that you don't
need any of that, Rose.
Thanks. How's your head?
-I think I'm...
-Yeah?
I think, you know, food will help you.
-Pizza, maybe?
-Yeah. That would be great.
Thought you were helping here.
Where can we go? Some place interesting.
Dancing? Why did I say that?
Oh! We could just go to
that great dessert place.
Sure.
Why is everything that's
delicious things fattening.
Oh, my mother would kill me. I'd love...
What is that, a Danish?
I mean, cinnamon...
This is the one. Right here.
Uh... ma'am...
Trees are so fascinating.
They don't have to touch to propagate.
Oh! Correct.
You would find that fascinating.
How many do I need?
You need a two... one,
two, three, four, five, six...
Yes/ Oh, you're right.
Why didn't I see that?
One, two, three, four, five.
Thank you very much. I owe you one.
Sometimes you don't see what's
right in front of your face.
Six and a five. I got you. Got you.
Oh, the pretzel! You can have mine.
You sounded excited on the phone.
What was it?
I'm not ready to write,
but let me run this by you...
Mmm-hmm..
I'm Donna pitch my idea
of my falling in love
is a defiabale man-made cultural
creation,
and expand that to include
the biological participation
and its effect on the individual.
-Greg.
-You see...
You need a hobby.
Oh! Oh!
God! I can't believe we've
been dating for three months,
and we haven't even kissed!
I can't figure out the list.
Just stick to that.
-How do you say hello?
-Well, we nod. It works.
Are you telling me you mean
you haven't even touched?
Well, I fell down once,
and he picked me up. Does that count?
-We talk a lot. That's what we do.
-About what?
About everything. It's great.
'Cause I don't worry about what I say,
what I wear, what I eat...
It's such a relief
eating in front of a man
and not worrying whether he's
going to get frightened or not.
I like that.
-He's really fun to be with too.
-Yeah?
Well, maybe
'fun' is too cheerful a word.
-He's interesting. That's what he is.
-Interesting.
-How many men can you say that about?
-Not many.
Do you think a tie is too
personal a birthday gift?
Not unless you're planning to use it
on something else other than his neck?
Oh...
-Does he look good in vests?
-He'd look good in a garbage bag.
Why do you want him to meet your mother?
I don't. It was my big mouth.
I kept telling him what
a great cook I was.
The next thing I know,
I'm offering birthday dinner...
and I've got to find him something nice.
Maybe after he meets her,
I'll probably never see him again.
-Hi, girls. Rose!
-Hi!
Hi, Claire.
I'm starving. Can we eat?
-Hi. Yeah. Sounds good.
Oh, honey. I hate to turn down a meal,
but I got a date with a post-grad.
Claire, help her find a gift
for Dr. Strangelove.
-Who?
-Nothing.
You know, we should get you some blush.
-No!
-I'm hungry, Claire.
-Fruit.
-Fruit?
Yes. Fruit.
Why are you so grumpy today?
How's everything going?
Oh, please!
If he wasn't gorgeous, rich and
straight,
I wouldn't be even bothered.
-What's wrong?
-Nothing.
I'm just sick to death
of the sight of the man
I'm bound to for eternity, that's all.
Why are you saying that?
Why am I saying that? Two seats please.
Yes, ma'am.
Because, no matter where I go,
no matter what I do, there he is.
In the kitchen, in the bathroom,
on the phone, on my finger.
-I was asleep the other night.
-Mmm-hmm...
When I wake up, he's staring at me.
-Staring at you?
-Yeah.
-I think that's sweet.
-I think it's kind of strange.
Uh. Hey. Wait on! Let's go.
Do you know any idea how
weird that makes me feel?
I'm in the middle of one
of my lesbian orgy dreams,
and he's staring at me like
I'm supposed to include him.
I can't even fantasize in private.
So...
Mom said you've been seeing
someone pretty steady.
-Good.
-Is he cute?
Oh, shit!
-What?
-Hi, girls.
-Hi, Alex.
-Rose.
What are you doing here?
Well, I...
I thought I'd meet you for coffee.
Is that a terrible thing to do?
Excuse me.
I'm going to the ladies' room. Alone.
Can you believe this weather?
It's almost April, and it's still cold.
I'm glad I have you alone actually.
Can I ask you a question?
-Mmm-hmm..
-It'll sound strange, but...
Is Claire happy?
I mean, do you think she's happy?
Um... Yes, I think she is. Why?
I'm being silly.
I'm a first-time husband, I guess.
If she doesn't wake up every morning
telling me how ecstatic she is, I...
I worry.
Did you ever think,
when you and I first met,
I'd end up marrying your sister?
And I have you to thank for that.
You made this possible.
Knowing you has changed my life, Rose.
Don't... don't do that.
What? What am I doing?
You don't even know, do you?
Oh, Rose.
Just tell Claire that I had to run.
Okay?
Rose, Rose, I'm sorry.
Ah! I really thought I was over him.
I hate this. It's so stupid. I... I...
-I must sound so pathetic.
-No, no. Not at all.
He asked if Claire was happy,
and I lied.
-Isn't that awful?
-Nothing criminal.
Thank you for seeing me
on such short notice.
You sounded so upset over the phone.
-Are you feeling better now?
-Yeah.
Yeah. A little.
-You know, Rose, it takes time.
-Yeah, I know.
Greg, I want you to know that I...
I really value our friendship.
It means a lot to me.
I feel the same way,
which is why tonight...
Tonight? I better go home,
Because, I have to get dinner ready.
I'll see you at 8:00, okay?
Uh... uh... Shall I bring anything...
something for your mother?
Uh... yeah,
a wooden stake and a crucifix. Bye.
Rose loves to fold napkins.
-It's one of her idiosyncrasies.
-Oh!
You'll have to skip me.
I came home late from work
and just threw this on.
God knows how I look.
-I hope you like it.
-Oh, my God, Rose, it's art!
No. No. It's not art.
No. No. No. An artist isn't just
somebody who paints or sculpts.
It's somebody who sets
the table a certain way,
prepares a meal a certain way
or teaches in a certain way.
-You're an artist, isn't she?
-Thank you.
Why didn't you use the Limoges, dear?
We have company.
-May I serve you?
-Oh. Pretty.
-Rose!
-My hands are clean.
We go to all this trouble,
and Rose and I don't eat very much.
-Really?
-Mmm.
Whenever I've been with Rose,
I've noticed she's  had
a very healthy appetite.
#
I can't stand women who eat
two bites and say they're full.
Thank, god.
Rose,
do you really need extra salt dear?
Do you know how much water a
woman retains with too much salt?
-Can I have some?
-Here you go.
And the potatoes too.
Mmm-mmm. You don't need them.
Have you ever sat in on one
of your daughter's classes?
Oh!
My mother sitting in one of my classes?
-Rose!
-What?
Oh. That's... that's the best part.
Rose tells me you've never been married.
Mom.
Yeah... that's all right, Rose. Um...
That's correct, Mrs.
Morgan. I... I haven't.
I guess that I haven't
found the right girl.
I've had several relationships
that haven't worked out, but...
that's all going to change.
Really? Why?
Well, as I... as I told Rose,
I have a theory about love,
and sex.
Does anybody want coffee?
Oh, I want some.
-What theory?
-Regular or decaf?
-Regular.
-I can make cappuccinos.
Cappuccinos. Would you like cappuccinos?
How about that? Huh?
Greg, why don't you come
to the kitchen and help me?
Rose, why won't you put the coffee on?
Mother, I made dinner.
Why don't you put the coffee on.
I've raised two daughters.
I buried a husband, I've made my coffee.
Well! Alone at last.
I've heard a lot about you.
-And I've heard a lot about you.
-Oh.
You've been seeing a lot of my
daughter these last few months.
I hope you don't mind my asking...
I'd like to know what
your intentions are.
My intentions?
Well...
What a lovely meal!
Oh... Gosh, you're a good cook.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you. I didn't oversell myself?
No. No. On the contrary,
when you go through all that trouble...
Of course I had to go
through all that trouble.
It was your birthday.
You know, what are friends for,
but to give each other
presents and stuff, and...
Happy birthday.
Rose... I forgot.
-Open it up! Open it up! Open it up!
-You shouldn't have gone...
I know. I know.
I know. I really hope you like it.
-What are these? Dice?
-They once were dice.
-Now, they're cuff links with...
-Prime numbers!
Two, three, five, no nine.
They're so beautiful! How'd you do that?
I had them made. Specially for you.
I hope they're okay.
They were done very fast.
-Thank you.
-You're welcome.
Yeah. Well...
Rose... uh...
I've been meaning to ask you something,
and I can only say this once...
What?
Sit down.
I think we have a lot in common.
And, although I am aware
certain variables are
and forever will be unknown, as is
the case
with most complex equations,
where you have two completely diverse...
Greg, talk to me.
I'm not saying this right, am I?
-Ummm...
-What?
This... this feeling you have for Alex,
it won't be the same with me.
You won't have that constant
ache in the pit of your stomach,
because we're not in love.
I think we do share a genuine
affection for each other.
We share a passion for knowledge
rather than a physical passion.
Although,
if sex is something that interests you,
I'm sure I could provide that on
occasion, given enough warning.
What... what are you saying?
Well, were both in love and we
were both miserable.
And we're both alone...
which is a waste really,
because as people, we're quite valuable.
Yeah...
Rose, when I look at you,
I... I see a woman
unlike any I've ever known before.
Your mind,
your humour, your passion for ideas.
I'm very fond of you.
I feel in a strange way when I'm
with you, I feel as if I'm...
as if I'm home.
So I think we should get married.
Huh!
If people marry for
sexual passion which fades
or for beauty which fades,
why are my reasons
more insane than those?
Are you in shock or just appalled?
Blink if you can hear me.
Why... why are you laughing?
I just... I'm sorry. This sounds silly,
but I was just thinking...
How could I... How could I marry
someone that I've never even...
You know...
Oh.
kissed.
You know, before you answer,
there is one other thing
I have to tell you.
I promised your sister I wouldn't,
but I can't enter into
this without you knowing.
You love Claire, too?
-No. No. I... uh..
-You just slept with her?
Oh, god. No!
-You want to sleep with her?
-I don't even know your sister.
-Ah!
-No! No!
It's about how I found you, you see.
I wrote this ad...
-Uh...
-An ad?
-Yes.
-I think that's kind of great.
-h, you do.
-Uh huh.
Oh, what a relief.
I thought you were Donna be upset.
Why? You picked me.
Well,
actually, I found you through this...
it was this
charming woman on TV...
Felicia...
Well, well, well...
Ha...
So?
Gregory just proposed to me.
Do you need a valium?
I know you don't have
much respect my opinion,
but I don't trust him.
I mean, where's the attraction?
You mean, why is he attracted to me?
He's not, mother.
Does that make you feel better?
He doesn't want sex.
He wants to be companions.
Companion?
What sane person would agree to that
kind of marriage?
I never heard of anything so ridiculous.
It's not natural.
What's natural? Claire and Alex?
He wants me, Mother!
Maybe not the same
way, you and Claire were wanted...
I'm sure he wants you.
He wants you to cook and clean for him!
Then it won't be much different from
living here.
I happen to know that he
found you through an ad.
Your sister told me.
I already know, Mom. Sorry.
Look... I know this isn't your
average proposal, but let's face it.
You know,
they're not standing in line for me.
And besides, we have a lot in common.
We really like each other!
Well then say yes!
What do you want from me?
I can live alone. I can manage.
If you think getting married under these
conditions is normal,
then go ahead.
Why do you do that?
Why do you make it sound so pathetic?
You had a life.
A husband who adored you.
Why don't you want me to have
just a little bit of that?
I'm getting older, too, Mom.
Why can't you be happy for me?
But you can't, can you?
Because you're scared
to death of being alone.
-And you're jealous.
-Jealous?
Jealous because a man wants me.
A good-looking man wants me.
How ridiculous!
Well, you know something, Mom?
A man does.
Today, Gregory Larkin and Rose Morgan
have placed rings on
each other's fingers
and have agreed to share their lives
and we hope, recognize
each other as equals.
They shall seek through
kindness and understanding
to achieve a life together as they
have envisioned.
We are gathered here to
participate and witness
the special ceremony of marriage,
which is a means of establishing
and continuing our home.
And as much as you have consented
together to live in wedlock
and have  exchanged
vows before witnesses,
by the authority vested in me,
and according to the law of the State of
New York,
I now pronounce you husband and wife.
Here's your certificate and good luck.
Thank you very much.
Congratulations! She's a great...
Yes. I've heard so much about you.
-Likewise about you. You're pretty...
-We all ought to...
Absolutely.
That'll be wonderful. Excuse me.
Congratulations.
Had I known you were this good-looking,
I'd have answered the ad for myself.
Oh! Congratulations.
She's the best person I know.
I mean if I were a man,
I'd be all over her.
Good luck and congratulations.
I'm sure you'll both be
very fascinating to watch.
-Rose?
-Yeah?
Isn't it amazing how many
books you accumulate over the years?
-I know what you mean.
-I can't believe it. And the dust!
This place needs a good cleaning.
We'll take care of that.
I made some room on the
shelf for your books.
-Oh, good.
-Need any help?
No. Every thing's pretty
much put in its place.
What would you like to do?
Go to bed.
To sleep... I mean... to...
In order to sleep,
you go to the bed for sleeping.
-Unless you'd rather do something else.
-Sorry. What?
-What?
-No, go. Please go ahead.
I wasn't going to say anything.
Alright, alright.
So, do you want the bathroom first?
-No, I can wait.
-No, no. No, no. You go.
-Are.. are you sure?
-No. No. You go. Please... please.
Your turn.
-Tired?
-Not really.
Me neither. These are nice.
Nice.
Do you want to watch some TV?
Oh, sure. I have some tapes. Old movies.
-Oh, great
-Oh, good.
I brought... lets' see...
It Happened One Night,
Lawrence of Arabia, Now, Voyager?
How about Lawrence of Arabia?
It's nice and long.
Okay. Lawrence of Arabia it is.
Just stick it in.
Right.
-Is it over?
-Yeah. Go to sleep.
Are you just looking or buying?
Ummm... It all depends.
I'm not sure yet.
So, how about you?
It seems to be going well.
Better than that.
-Have you two... uh...?
-No, and it's made a bit of difference.
-I don't know how you do it,
but if it works,
-I'd give you both a lot of credit.
-Credit? Credit for what?
Oh! I was just telling Henry how
sex isn't an issue for us.
Um... it's true.
I mean,
it's much less complicated this way,
not to mention sanitary.
It feels so good to be writing again.
I'm having so many
ideas for the new book!
Oh, yeah?
I can't believe how easily it's coming.
I have outlines for
three chapters already.
That's great.
What a terrific idea it was of yours,
Rose, to come here to the park.
I've never written in the park.
-It's wonderful.
-I'm glad.
Another one of these.
Is that Barry?
I think it is.
Hey! Barry?
Barry?
-Hi. It's Rose.
-It's Rose...
-Hi! How are you?
-How are you?
-Good to see you.
-This is Gloria.
Hello.
Oh! This is my husband, Gregory Larkin.
-Hello.
-Hi, Gregory. This is Gloria.
I heard you got married.
Congratulations.
Thank you. Gosh! You look good, Barry.
Well, being engaged agrees with me.
Engaged! Well, congratulations!
Yeah, well, I finally found
somebody who didn't cancel on me.
Will you please excuse me, please?
Nice to meet you.
-It was nice to meet you too. Thanks.
-Bye.
I'm really happy for you... both.
-Thank you.
-Thank you, Rose. And take care.
You, too.
Everything okay?
Yeah, everything's okay.
What?
Well, the jeans and a T-shirt...
it's a great look on you.
Mmmm... yeah?
You should wear it to class sometime.
Do you mind? I'd love to get the scores.
No, no! You go ahead.
I'm Donna read the paper.
Oh, I didn't tell you...
I received a few invitations
from some European universities
to lecture on my book.
Oh! That's nice.
I told them, of course,
that I wanted to check with you first.
Sounds great. For how long?
Three months.
Starting in June after the term ends.
Three months?
All right, guys. Come on. Let's get
the rally going here.
Come on. Come on.
I never could understand people's
fascination with baseball.
I don't see the point of playing a game
where you wind up at the
same place you started.
Well,
actually, this should interest you,
because it's about stats and averages.
Stats and averages? Explain that to me.
Well,
see that every time a player comes up,
they flash a three-digit number.
And that is the player's average.
That is, how many times he hits the ball
in ratio to how many
times he comes up to bat.
No. Which number is this?
An equation such as the second
derivative of the function F
with respect to the variable
X equals a constant.
Anybody see the game yesterday?
That Marrakesh, what a bum, huh?
Let me try putting this another way.
Well, mainly trajectory,
if a batter hits a ball,
how can we determine how far it will go?
What are the variables
needed to hit a home run,
pretending for a moment that
the bum could hit a home run?
The velocity with which
the ball leaves the bat?
-The velocity, correct.
-I have a question.
Does a rising fastball really rise?
I don't know. I'll have to ask my wife.
I could not believe it.
Suddenly, the room was filled
with this... uh... tangible energy.
We were actually exchanging ideas.
We were connected somehow.
They participated,
they questioned, they stayed!
Rose, I cannot thank you enough.
I was a better teacher today,
than I've ever been, because of you.
Well, thank you. Thank you very much.
Fresh pepper?
No. She doesn't care for pepper,
but I'll have some.
Oh! And could you bring her a
little side dish of dressing?
She likes a little extra. Thank you.
So, I kinda feel I should
return the favours.
Is there anything
that I can do for you?
Anything that you want from me?
I'll have to think about that.
-Ma'am.
-Okay Just glop it on.
Enjoy your dinner.
-You're not eating.
-No, I'm watching your ritual.
My... what?
Your ritual. I just about got
your sequence now, I think.
My sequence?
Yes. You always start out by
rotating the plate counter-clockwise,
cut on the diagonal,
remove unwanted elements,
and now, I believe, comes my favourite
part, the loading of the fork.
I find it just fascinating,
the percentages that you use
of different vegetables to create
that one harmoniously balanced,
perfect bite.
Mmm.
You have a little...
Don't smear it.
That might stain. You might want
to put a little soap on that.
I'll be right back.
Mmm.
I want to ask you something.
Just to make sure I've...
-Come on. Don't stop.
-What do you think? I'm a machine?
It is true...
This overwhelming feeling
we have for each other,
it is true for you,
as it is for me, isn't it?
Come on, come on, you're doing great.
Keep it up.
Okay. Ready?
Doesn't that music infuriate you?
Yeah, I'm livid.
Rose, I came by your office today
to take you out to lunch,
and you weren't there.
Where were you?
At a staff meeting or something?
No. I had lunch with Henry.
Rose, he's a friend of mine,
but you have to watch out for him.
Believe me, I'm not his type.
No, no, no. I'm sure he is.
He has trouble controlling himself.
-Oh.
-What? What? What?
Did you pull something?
-I think so.
-Where?
-Right here.
-Right here?
-Yeah. A little lower.
Lower.
Closer to the spine. Oh, there. Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Lean back into it.
You know, I was thinking.
Maybe you'd like to meet me in
Europe
after your summer classes end.
We never had any kind
of honeymoon vacation.
That's right.
I would... gosh I would love that.
-Would you?
-Mmm.
-Am I pressing too much?
-No, no. Just that I'm all sweaty and...
I have to floss.
When you've got to floss,
you've got to floss.
Claire, I don't know how to ask for it.
And we were so polite to each other,
sometimes I feel like we're
room-mates in a charm school.
Wait. Hold on a sec.
I gotta put you on the speaker.
I am so frustrated, Claire.
I don't know what to do.
You might ask him. Give him a look
and let him know you want sex.
I tried that once. He thought
there was something in my eye.
I'm talking about a look
that generates some heat.
God! You know, sometimes, I swear
he feels something too.
I'm just not sure.
Men aren't that bright, Rose. It's easy.
Be subtle, mysterious, seductive.
Subtle, mysterious, seductive?
Why don't men come with instructions?
-It'll be fine.
-I... I..
More coffee?
Yeah.
Thanks. Well, my tickets just arrived.
My first lecture is in Paris
on the 24th. I leave Saturday.
Greg, do you want an
English muffin or anything?
No. No, thanks.
Alright. Well, I have to go.
I have an early class.
All right. Have a nice day.
-Oh, by the way...
-Mmm?
Would telling you now that I'd like sex
tonight be enough of a warning?
Or should we wait till you come back
from Europe?
Yeah, right? That's better.
No, no... That's fine.
All right.
I guess I'll see you tonight.
Have a nice day.
Have you ever tried making love?
Well, that's just it. Our
relationship was never based on that.
I don't understand.
Things were going so well.
Having sex now will ruin everything.
You're a very sick man. You know that.
Mmm.
Johnson's been around both leagues,
but seems to have found
a home here in the Bronx.
He's leading the American league
with a 2.34 ERA and 24 strikeouts.
And strike three. That makes
strikeout number 25 for Johnson
in this young season.
I have the game on for you.
Oh. Great.
Some wine?
Oh, I don't know Rose.
I'll wake up with a headache.
-One glass.
-All right, one glass.
Same score?
This is good. Sweet.
I normally don't like sweet, but...
this is good.
I'm glad you like it. Do you...
Would you mind terribly
if we muted the TV?
What are you doing?
Nothing much.
All right.
Would it be all right if I sat down?
-That wine made me warm.
-I can fix that.
It's okay.
Good game?
I can't hear.
Rose. Oh! Oh! Ah!
No. That's all right. That's all right.
No, no...
Did I hurt you?
-No, no, Rose. No. You didn't hurt me.
No. You missed. You didn't spill a drop.
I guess...
That's funny?
I guess that's kinda funny.
Do you think we could turn the TV off?
That's better.
We have to relax.
I agree.
How... how are classes?
Going well.
-And your book? How's that...
-The outline is actually...
It's coming along.
It's almost there.
It's not at all what I expected.
It's harder than I thought.
But I'll... I'll...
-I'm sure that I'll...
-Are you sure...
sure, I'll... get there.
I want you to get there.
What did you say?
-Rose.
-Talk to me.
-Oh, yes. Oh, no.
-Oh, yes.
Oh, God. Oh, Rose.
Oh, god.
-No, no, no.
-Yes, yes, yes.
No, no.
-I don't want to do this!
-What?
I'm sorry, Rose.
Oh!
And, yeah. I have to say,
Rose, I'm a little confused.
A little disappointed.
Everything was going so well.
At least, I thought so. Didn't you?
Why? Is that the truth or just some
kind of female manipulation?
I wish...
I wish you'd just tell me the truth.
You knew the arrangement.
You knew how I felt.
Did you think that would change?
Why?
I hoped, that even though
I initially made the offer,
that I know you would have seen
that there was no need for it.
I'd hoped that we'd gone beyond it.
Did you honestly think
this was the next step?
Rose, you have it all backwards.
You know, what we have,
usually comes
after all this nonsense is over.
Most people never get to where we are
in regards to sharing and respect.
Instead,
they try to keep the sex going.
And when that fades,
they just move on to someone new.
That's why...
that's why our relationship works,
because it was never physical.
I took every precaution to make sure
there was no physical attraction!
Rose... Rose, I'm sorry.
Rose?
It's just...
I've never had this
with a woman before.
The way I can talk I can talk about it,
share everything with you.
Are you...
are you not satisfied with me?
Rose?
Maybe...
maybe this is something we have to come
up with something to
struggle through together.
Maybe... maybe this lecture tour is
coming at a good time.
Maybe we can use some distance
from each other for a while.
Don't you think?
I thought we were good friends.
Talk to me, Rose.
Rose, come on. Let me in. I'm sorry.
Come on. Open the door.
Open the door, please.
Come on, Rose.
What are you doing here?
I just came to sleep in my own bed.
Is that okay?
What happened? Is it Gregory?
I don't want to say I told you so,
but...
-Mom.
-What?
When I was a baby,
did you think I was pretty?
I don't know what you mean.
All babies are pretty.
No. No, I mean me.
You must have thought
something about how I looked.
What's pretty, anyway?
What good did it do your sister?
Do you remember...
when I was a little girl?
You told me to...
push my nose up
with my index finger.
So it wouldn't droop.
I did not! Are you drunk?
That's what you told me.
It's funny too because,
I never would have thought
that I wasn't pretty
if it weren't for
those things you said.
If you came to say more cruel
things to me, I'm going to bed.
-Mom?
-What?
How did it feel?
How did what feel?
Being beautiful?
-Oh, shut up.
-No, I mean it.
How did it feel having
people look at you
with such admiration?
Looking at yourself in the mirror
with such appreciation?
How did that feel?
It was wonderful.
I bet.
Hello.
Hi, Hannah.
This is Gregory. Is Rose there?
No.
She's gone out. Can I take a message?
No. Hannah, the point is that I've been
giving you messages,
and she hasn't called back.
I want to say goodbye to my wife.
I'll tell her.
Rose,
I hated the way we left each other.
I wanted to say goodbye
to you personally,
not through your mother.
I don't like leaving this way,
but my plane is here.
I hope your mother doesn't
erase this message.
I don't know what else to say.
Rose, I hated the way we left each other
I wanted to say goodbye
to you personally,
not through your mother.
You're up early.
I haven't been to bed.
-You haven't been to bed?
-No.
Why not?
Listen I... I had a lot to think
about after you left.
It's awful thing to do to a woman my
age
and leave her alone with her thoughts.
You really love him, don't you?
You do, it's obvious.
That... that feeling
you have for Gregory,
I don't think I ever felt that.
Not even for your father.
It's not...
not as easy thing for me to say,
especially to you.
It's awful to look back on your life
and realize that you've settled.
The problem was that I
always felt I had more time.
I was...
Now, inside, I feel young.
Like a kid that's...
just beginning.
I have everything ahead of me.
But I don't.
So I guess I am jealous.
Parents don't have a plan
to hurt their children.
I never wanted to hurt you.
Mom,
I'm not that hurt.
Do you know what I thought
when you were a baby?
What?
That you looked just like your father
and that Claire looked like me.
What's that?
She was so pretty, even then.
Look at those eyes.
Those lips.
That's not Claire, that's you.
Me? I never saw this picture.
You know, I found it when I
was rearranging the closet.
-This was me?
-Mmm-hmm.
I... I was pretty?
Your father adored you,
but you know that.
He never felt that way about Claire.
Only you.
I don't think he ever held
a baby until you came.
He never wanted to let you go.
-I'm glad you found this, mom.
-Yes. I am too.
She was very pretty.
You were very pretty.
Remember that.
Yeah.
Thank you all,
very much, for your warm welcome.
It's truly an honour for me
to be here in your country.
Hello,
Rose, I'd love to speak with you.
I never seem to catch you at home.
I really think we should discuss this,
Rose.
And believe me,
I have no judgement over what happened.
I just think that we should talk.
I'm leaving for Venice tomorrow,
and I wanted to wish
you a happy birthday.
I do have a present for you.
It's a week at a baseball camp.
Rose.
Hello, Rose?
Rose, are you there?
Henry, have you heard from her?
She apparently cancelled
her summer classes.
-How do you know that?
-I called her mother.
She said Rose took a
couple of months off.
Rose/ Here, try this one.
It's an eight.
I like the black one
and I need a size six.
Hello.
Rose, I have to say, I'm very surprised.
I can't believe how
childishly you're behaving.
It's unlike you.
How did she finally
persuade you to tell me?
It's a long story.
I'm changing my plans.
I'm coming home right after London.
I'm supposed to be in
New York next Monday.
My number here is 01-71-257-7355.
All prime numbers, by the way.
Hello?
Rose? Are you here?
-Rose?
-Hi! Don't come in. I'll be right out.
May I have a glass, too, please?
Good to see you, Greg.
How was your trip?
Are you all right?
Oh, just a little busy. The uh...
travelling doesn't agree with me.
You need a glass of water?
-What happened to you?
-Nothing. I just made a few changes.
-What did you do to your hair?
-I lightened it.
Your face?
And you're wearing make-up.
Yeah. Well,
women do wear make-up from time to time.
It's not like I had surgery or anything,
but...
although my mother offered.
You never...
-Are you hungry?
-You never wore make-up.
I know. The no-frills girl. Right?
Well,
like I said, I made a few changes.
-And you lost weight, too?
-Thank you.
Now, these have no oil or butter.
Trust me. It's delicious.
You got to get used to it.
Among other things, what have you done?
What have I done. I'm wearing make-up.
I lost a few pounds.
I didn't name names
before a senate committee.
Well, forgive me.
But you don't return my calls,
you completely cut me off,
and then I return to find this. I'm...
Uh, I'm...
-What?
-Speechless.
-I guess you don't like it.
-Don't like it? I'm in shock.
I come home to find a completely
different woman in my apartment.
Why did you do it?
Wait a minute. Why do I have to
explain this to you or anybody?
I'm not anybody. I'm your husband.
#
And I married a woman
who looked a certain way.
To tell you the truth,
I feel sort of betrayed.
Betrayed? Oh, please! Gregory. Come on.
-You had no right.
-I had no right?
Why did you do this to me?
Do what to you?
I don't do anything to you.
That's the problem.
What's the difference what I look like?
You never look at me anyhow.
If physical appearance doesn't matter,
then what's wrong with this appearance?
I happen to like the way I look.
And I'm sorry if it upsets your
mathematical equation.
'Handsome, frightened man marries
unattractive, desperate woman.'
Is that how the ads read?
No. No. It's simply that I
was expecting someone else.
I'm sorry. I don't know what to say.
I'll just have to get used to it.
No, you don't.
-You don't have to get used to anything.
-What do you mean?
Gregory, I don't want to continue.
I don't understand.
I... I really want to apologize.
I... settled for something
that I didn't want.
I thought I could live with that.
I though it would be enough. But...
I lied.
I lied to myself. I lied to you.
To tell you the truth,
I think your theories
about relationships are total bullshit.
I believe in love and
lust and sex and romance,
I don't want everything to
add up to some perfect equation.
I want mess and chaos.
I want someone
to go crazy... out of his mind for me.
I want to feel passion and
heat and sweat and madness!
I want Valentines and cupids
an all the rest of that crap!
I want it all, and I want to thank you.
I want to thank you Greg,
because you forced me
to look at things I was too
lazy or too scared to look at.
I mean, can you imagine, all this
time I...
I kept up this ridiculous fantasy that
you, like Alex,
would fall in love with me.
-Rose?
-I know. I know. I know.
I was wrong. It was unfair of me
to think that you would change...
Rose! Rose! But I think...
I know what you think, Gregory.
And just let me finish.
Rose, Rose, Rose, I feel...
You feel very strongly about
your beliefs. I appreciate that.
I'm sorry that I broke our agreement.
It was just that I fell in
love with you. Stupid. Right?
Rose! Rose... I feel...
I don't want you to feel.
But it's all right now,
because I'm not in
love with you any more.
What?
Which ironically,
now makes me perfect for this marriage,
but now I don't want it.
Suddenly, dinner doesn't
seem like such a good idea.
I should... I should go.
Where are you going?
Your mother's?
Just until I find my own place.
I hope at some point we can pick
up where we left off as friends.
Friends?
I really just thank you, Greg.
You're the first man who wanted
to marry me for any reason.
Can I call you tomorrow?
What for?
Oh.
You all have copies of the syllabus?,
right
Yes.
There will be four short
papers on this time... text...
Be prepared to also
discuss these in class.
Now, some of my students from last term
can tell you how important
these oral sessions are.
in... uh...
What? What?
Yes, I have breasts.
They cannot, however,
be the subject of one of your papers.
Now...
Hey! A double play!
Well, of course,
I'll miss spending time with her,
but I feel proud that
I stood up for what I believe.
It felt like I was right.
It could have worked.
Obviously not with her,
but...
I think it was an
invaluable experience.
You're in pretty bad shape, aren't you?
-What I just told you...
-May I make a suggestion?
Put all your valuable
possessions...
things you really care about...
in storage.
Why?
Trust me on this.
You don't want anything
breakable in your apartment.
Henry, Henry...
I just told you, I'm fine.
Really. I'm actually using
all of this in my next book.
Especially glass.
I miss him, Claire.
But I don't think he's ready for me.
I still can't get used to seeing you
like this.
-It's sort of unnerving.
-Thanks.
Makes you just like the rest of us
now, doesn't it?
You'll see.
Now, you'll spend an extra
hour in front of the mirror,
every morning and every night,
as if it'll make any difference.
Now, you'll be the one to
walk into a room and scan it
for who looks better
than you and who doesn't.
Ans as the years go by,
the numbers change.
Until one day, you walk into a room
and you're the last
woman any man notices.
Rose? My God! Rose!
-Hi, Alex.
-I can't believe it's you.
My God!
-Alex, get a fucking grip.
-You look incredible.
-Thank you.
-Doesn't she look incredible?
-Yes, we already covered that.
-Oh, yes...
-I thought you hated salad.
-I do.
I just can't eat a sick cheeseburger
in the middle of the day any more,
you know?
-Doesn't it bloat you?
-Bloat me?
-Yeah.
-No. I doesn't bloat me.
Actually, I thought it went really well
with the spare ribs
I had for breakfast.
-What's the matter?
-I'm sorry.
I just thought we'd always
be in the same boat.
You know what I'm saying?
It made it easier, somehow.
I'll tell you what.
I'll give you half my salad if
you give me half your burger.
-We'll need some more dressing.
-Definitely. Waiter!
We all want to be attractive,
but remember,
one of the first things people notice...
the one thing that makes
a lasting impression...
is your smile.
If you're like most people,
your appearance is
probably important to you.
We all spend so much time,
energy and money
in an effort to look our best.
We all want to be attractive.
Ugh.
Hello.
-Hello, it's Alex.
-Oh, hi Al.
How are you?
Oh, I'm okay. I'm...
trying to get on with my life, you know?
Oh, good, good.
-What's wrong with you? You don't...
-Claire's gone.
-Gone?
-Yeah.
Gone where?
I came home to surprise her at lunch
and found her in bed with her masseur.
It's my own fault, really.
Claire hates surprises.
-Alex, I'm really sorry.
-No, I knew it was coming.
I don't know why she wasn't happy.
I couldn't have loved
her more than I did.
I don't think it would have
mattered how much you loved her.
-Rose...
-Mmm-hmm...
Did you know that Claire
was jealous of you.
-Uh... what? Jealous of me?
-Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah.
She used to get so mad at me
every time I'd talk about you.
She thought I had a
secret crush on you.
Maybe she was right.
Do you want to have dinner with me?
What?
Well, I'm asking you if you
want to have dinner with me.
I, uh...
I have to... I have to think about it.
-I'll have to ask Claire.
-Alright.
Okay.
D! Congratulations. You're improving!
I don't understand what you're
saying about twin primes.
I'm explaining it to you!
But I still don't understand.
Don't you know that its
is possible to remove
an infinite number of
elements from an infinite set
and still have an infinite
number of elements left over?
We spent time quite a bit
of time on this already.
Christ! My wife understood
this on our first date!
Class dismissed!
Get out of here! Go! Go!  Go!
Very enjoyable dinner.
Good.
-Did you cook it yourself?
-Yes, I did.
-What a liar.
-Yes, I am.
What?
I was thinking, I only smoke
when I'm with you.
I wonder why?
I can't thank you enough for
the other day.
For tonight.
You're such an inspiration.
The way you've changed,
evolved, I guess, is a better word,
into this beautiful, smart,
very sexy...
Mmm.
I think I must have
loved you all along.
I just didn't know it.
What an idiot.
-Hannah, this is... this is ridiculous.
-Gregory, I really can't talk now.
She can't not talk to me forever.
I've got to...
-Gregory, what are you doing?
-I have to explain things.
I think it's a little late for that
Gregory.
-Don't you think...
-What?
I said it's a little
late for that Gregory.
No, I don't think so.
What Rose and I have goes far
beyond what normal people...
What's all that noise?
What are you trying to say, Greg?
Gregory, what is going on?
-Can you just...
-Gregory...
Hannah,
Put her on the goddam phone right now!
She's not here.
What?
I might as well tell you,
she's with Alex now.
Alex?
She's with him tonight.
He and Claire split up.
I'm sure you know how much
she's always cared for him.
So, like I said, I see no point
in your pursuing this any further.
I'm sorry to keep you waiting.
So,
Mr. Jenkins, which do you like best?
To be perfectly honest,
I think you're more beautiful now.
Good answer.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Wait a minute. Wait a minute.
What... what... what's the matter?
What did you mean by,
you must have loved me all along,
but just didn't know it?
I don't...
Wait... wait... wait...
figure it out, cause I'd like an answer.
Well, I don't know Rose.
I mean, you were different then.
You weren't the same as you are now.
So how could you have loved me then?
Well, I loved you because of who you
were,
not because I wanna do you...
So now you want who I am,
because I'm not who I was any more?
Rose, what? What are you doing?
You know something?
I have dreamt about this moment
from the first day we met.
I've played it out a
million times in my mind
how you'd look,
what you'd say and what you'd think.
-And guess what?
-What?
You were better in my
head.
Oh, Rose, sugar.
Maybe I've had too much to drink.
No. No. It's not you, it's me.
You see, I don't feel anything.
Isn't that great?
I never thought about what I would feel,
I was only thinking about you.
I only wanted to make you happy.
I never thought I was
good enough for you.
But you are good enough for me Rose.
You are! You are!
I know. I know.
But Alex, you're not good enough for me.
Okay.
She's with Alex now, Henry.
Oh, god!
I don't know whether it is
my head or my stomach.
Here, drink this. Come on. Right there.
I might have Chinese food poisoning.
Here, give me your coat.
Maybe my Szechuan chicken they
brought beef
that they'd give a cat.
-Cat/
-Uh...
-I'm so dizzy.
-You feel dizzy?
I was in my apartment all alone,
and I didn't know what to do.
Come on. Give me your shoe. That's it.
I'm sorry, Henry.
Hey, you'll just stay here tonight.
Come on.
Henry, I love Rose.
I love...
I love the old Rose.
The one with no make-up
and baggy clothes
who loves the perfect bite.
I love her.
It's real. It's not based on passion.
Although, I feel that.
Or lust, although, I feel that.
Or even physical attraction.
Because she wasn't...
although,
I thought she was quite beautiful.
Her eyes, her mouth.
The way she held herself,
the way made fun of herself.
She eats carrots now.
Isn't that tragic?
What am I going to do?
You know that in the last two years,
I've been with 11 different women.
Most of them half my age.
Not one
with a sense of humour I understood.
Now, I don't date these girls
because they're well read.
I gave one a copy of A Farewell to Arms,
and she thought it was a diet book.
-Can I help you?
-Yes, I want to see Miss Morgan.
It's kind of late to be visiting people,
don't you think?
Can you please just ring her apartment?
I don't believe Miss Morgan would
care to be disturbed at this hour.
-You don't believe?
-Six o'clock in the morning.
-I believe...
-I don't care what you believe.
I know her a
lot better than you do.
Go home now.
Rose!
Hey!
Do you hear that?
Get away from this building
or I'm Donna call the police.
Rose!
What the hell is going on?
-Rose!
-Go home.
Rose!
Oh, God!
-It's him, isn't it?
-Gregory!
-Rose!
-Get away from this building.
Oh, my God! I can't believe this.
Rose!
What is it that he is doing
out there at this hour?
Mother, I'm Donna go and find out.
-He's insane.
-I know. Isn't it wonderful?
What's the problem?
Rose!
Get the hell out of here!
Don't you know people
are trying to sleep?
Get out, right now!
You had enough?
Stop that! Eddie, what are you doing?
Don't worry,
Miss Morgan, I'll call the police.
Don't call the police.
This is my husband.
He doesn't have a key?
-Don't ask.
-I told you I know her better than you.
-Are you alright?
-Yeah.
What... what is going on?
What are you doing here?
-I came to see you.
-Why?
-Why did you come to see me?
-I... uh...
In light of our last conversation,
and after speaking with Henry,
I... I've come to realize... that...
although you might have significant
reservations about even considering...
Gregory! What! I'm ageing here.
What is it you want to say?
God, you're beautiful.
Thank you.
Thank you, Gregory.
What?
I'm so sorry for the way I
acted and for the things I said.
-I know that I hurt you.
-It's okay.
-And...and.. that was the last thing...
-I understand, Gregory.
in the whole world
I accept your apology.
-Rose, Rose, please let me finish.
This is important for me to say.
That night, that terrible night... I...
I wanted you so much,
I couldn't see straight.
I have to make sure you know that, Rose.
It wasn't you.
Yeah, but I thought that...
No. It wasn't you, Rose.
You're a very sexy girl.
And... and ...
I know that it's not
fair of me to say that,
now you're with Alex, but...
Who said that I...
-Who said that I was with Alex?
-Your mother.
My mother? Oh, great.
No. I couldn't do it.
I'm not with Alex.
You're not?
Well...
Talk to me.
Rose, I love you.
And I want to be married to you.
Gregory, you are married to me.
That's right. Yeah, right.
-God...
-What?
-I'm getting a little dizzy.
-Oh, god! Why?
It'll pass. Just hold on.
Rose, don't ever leave me again.
I'm not leaving you. I love you.
I couldn't stand being away from you.
It's killing me.
Oh, I'm so glad.
I don't care if you are pretty.
I love you anyway.
Everything will drop as I get older,
and I'm gaining weight as we speak.
That's comforting.
-Get in, lady.
-No, not you again!
You noticed?
I can't believe this.
Your windows are still broke?
Complain to the cab company. I got
nothing to do with it.